---
title: "Microsoft Confidential Computing Updates - Q4 2025" # Title of the blog post.
date: 2025-12-25T14:30:35+01:00 # Date of post creation.
description: "Microsoft Confidential Computing Updates Q4 2025." # Description used for search engine.
featured: false # Sets if post is a featured post, making appear on the home page side bar.
draft: false # Sets whether to render this page. Draft of true will not be rendered.
toc: false # Controls if a table of contents should be generated for first-level links automatically.
# menu: main
usePageBundles: false # Set to true to group assets like images in the same folder as this post.
# featureImage: "/images/ignite.png" # Sets featured image on blog post.
# featureImageAlt: 'DockerCon 2018' # Alternative text for featured image.
# featureImageCap: 'This is the featured image.' # Caption (optional).
thumbnail: "/images/acc.png" # Sets thumbnail image appearing inside card on homepage.
# shareImage: "/images/DockerCon2018.png" # Designate a separate image for social media sharing.
codeMaxLines: 10 # Override global value for how many lines within a code block before auto-collapsing.
codeLineNumbers: false # Override global value for showing of line numbers within code block.
figurePositionShow: true # Override global value for showing the figure label.
categories:
  - Technology
  - Microsoft
  - Microsoft Ignite
  - Security
  - Confidential Computing
  - TechCommunity
tags:
  - General Available
  - Public Preview
  - Azure Boost
  - Azure Database for PostgreSQL
  - Azure Confidential Ledger
  - Azure Container Apps
  - Azure MCP
  - Azure Recovery Services
  - Intel TDX
  - Confidential Virtual Machines
# comment: false # Disable comment if false.
---

Within this blog, We want to give you an overview of all the features that become available in General Availability and/or Technical Preview by Microsoft.
This information can be found at Microsoft <a href="https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/updates/">Azure Updates</a> or <a href="https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/azure-confidential-computing/bg-p/AzureConfidentialComputingBlog">Azure Confidential Computing Blog</a>.

<b> Features are now supported by Microsoft (GA): </b>
- <b>[General Available]</b> <a href="https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/developer/azure-mcp-server/tools/azure-confidential-ledger">Azure MCP Server support for Azure confidential ledger</a> <br>
  The Azure MCP (Model Context Protocol) Server provides a streamlined approach for managing Azure resources—including Azure confidential ledger—through natural language prompts. This feature allows users to interact with confidential ledger without the need to memorize complex command syntax. Customers can now create an immutable and integrity-protected Azure confidential ledger for logging purposes. Additionally, writing to and reading from the ledger using AI is now fully supported and ready for deployment. You can connect to Azure MCP Server utilizing a range of tools, programming languages, and frameworks. The server facilitates resource management via natural language conversations, supports the development of automation scripts, and enables integration of Azure operations into various applications. This capability is accessible through Visual Studio Code and GitHub Copilot.
<br>

- <b>[General Available]</b> <a href="https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/blog/azureconfidentialcomputingblog/azure-intel%C2%AE-tdx-confidential-vms-momentum/4470736">Azure Intel® TDX confidential VMs momentum</a> <br>
  Azure’s next generation of Confidential Virtual Machines powered by 5th Gen Intel® Xeon® processors (code-named Emerald Rapids) with Intel® Trust Domain Extensions (Intel® TDX) is out in preview now. This will help to enable organizations to bring confidential workloads to the cloud without code changes to applications. These instances also enable Intel® Advanced Matrix Extensions (Intel® AMX) to accelerate confidential AI scenarios. Supported SKUs include the general-purpose DCesv6-series, as well as the memory-optimized ECesv6-series.
  To learn more, see the following recorded Microsoft Ignite event called: <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=z0R6JFHbyPc">Advancing Confidential Computing: Bosch, Microsoft Azure, & Intel TDX | ODSP1515 Video</a>

<br>

<b> Features are not yet supported by Microsoft (GA) </b>
- <b> [Private Preview] </b><a href="https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/blog/azureconfidentialcomputingblog/securing-confidential-vm-backups-with-azure-recovery-services-vault-and-private-/4458965">Securing Confidential VM Backups with Azure Recovery Services Vault and Private Endpoints</a> <br> When working with Confidential VMs (CVMs) in Azure, ensuring secure backups is just as important as protecting workloads in use. Confidential VMs use hardware-based Trusted Execution Environments (TEEs) such as AMD SEV-SNP or Intel TDX to keep your data safe. But how do you securely back up this data without exposing it to the public internet? The answer lies in combining Azure Recovery Services Vault (RSV) with Private Endpoints.
<br>

- <b> [Public Preview] </b><a href="https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/postgresql/overview#azure-regions">Azure Database for PostgreSQL – Flexible Server v6 series VMs and AMD v6 Confidential Compute</a> <br>
  Now you can deploy general purpose and memory-optimized v6-series Azure Virtual Machines with local NVMe storage in Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server. The v6 series is available with either Intel or AMD processor options.
  To learn more, see the blog which kickstarted the Confidential Compute journey, <a href="https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/blog/adforpostgresql/announcing-azure-confidential-computing-for-azure-database-for-postgresql-ga/4454893">Announcing Azure Confidential Computing for Azure Database for PostgreSQL (GA)</a>
  <br>

- <b> [Public Preview] </b><a href="https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/container-apps/security##confidential-compute-preview">Confidential computing in Azure Container Apps</a> <br>
  Confidential computing support in Azure Container Apps is now in public preview. This release brings hardware-based Trusted Execution Environments (TEEs) to your containerized workloads. Azure already provides encryption of data at rest and in transit, and confidential computing provides an additional layer of protection for data in use by encrypting data in memory and processing it only after the cloud environment is verified. This helps customers prevent unauthorized access to data in use, even from the cloud operator, and is beneficial for organizations that require further protection for sensitive data and applications. Confidential computing is accessible through workload profiles in Azure Container Apps, and the public preview is limited to select regions.
  <br>

- <b> [Private Preview] </b><a href="https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/blog/azureinfrastructureblog/powering-modern-cloud-workloads-with-azure-boost-ignite-2025/4470793">Azure Boost confidential device</a> <br>
  Azure Boost is a Microsoft Azure system that offloads virtualization tasks—such as networking, storage, and host management—from the hypervisor and host OS to purpose-built hardware and software, freeing CPU resources for customer workloads while enhancing security through physical isolation and hardware root of trust. By reducing maintenance impact and improving scalability, Azure Boost enables faster, more secure, and highly efficient cloud operations for demanding workloads. The Azure Boost confidential device feature is designed specifically for upcoming versions of Azure confidential VMs and will allow the confidential computing trust boundary of these VMs to be extended into the Azure Boost card using the PCIe TDISP standard. This standard supports hardware-based attestation of the Azure Boost card and hardware-based encryption of the PCIe data path. This feature will enhance confidential VM performance by eliminating the need for a “bounce buffer” when sensitive data within the trust boundary of the confidential VM is shared outside of that trust boundary. This feature will deliver faster data movement, reduce CPU overhead, and improve confidential VM performance without compromising security. 
<br>
<br>